docs: gentler-gentle-intro-haw (#2088)
OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs: arbitrum-docs/how-arbitrum-works/01-a-gentle-introduction.mdx

import ImageWithCaption from '@site/src/components/ImageCaptions/';

:::info

This page gives a high-level overview. It explains <a data-quicklook-from="arbitrum">Arbitrum</a>, its purpose, and a brief "how it works." As you progress through the articles in this section, the content will get more technical and dive deeper into each component(s) and function(s) of the Arbitrum technology stack.

:::

> Arbitrum is a technology suite designed to improve Ethereum. You can use Arbitrum chains for the same things you do on Ethereum, like using Web3 apps and deploying smart contracts. The difference is that your transactions will be cheaper and faster. Our main product, Arbitrum Rollup, is an Optimistic rollup protocol that offers the same security as Ethereum.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Arbitrum is a technology suite designed to improve Ethereum. You can use Arbitrum chains for the same things you do on Ethereum, like using Web3 apps and deploying smart contracts. The difference is that your transactions will be cheaper and faster. Our main product, Arbitrum Rollup, is an Optimistic Rollup protocol that offers the same security as Ethereum.
```

### How do these fraud proofs work?

People who help manage the Arbitrum chain on the parent chain are called validators. They make claims about the chain's state, dispute others' claims, and more. Most Arbitrum users are unlikely to run a validator, just as most Ethereum users do not operate their parent chain staking node. However, anyone can become a validator; you don't need special permission ([once the allowlist gets lifted](https://docs.arbitrum.foundation/state-of-progressive-decentralization)). You only need to run the [open source validator software](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro) and stake Ether if required.

The chain stays secure if there is at least one honest validator. It only takes one trustworthy fraud prover to catch many bad actors. These features make the system "trustless." Users do not depend on any specific group to keep their funds safe.

### Who does this fraud proofing?

> This step is where the "rollup" part comes in. Arbitrum Rollup chains handle user transaction data by posting it directly on Ethereum. This setup means that as long as Ethereum is secure, anyone can see what happens on Arbitrum. They can also spot and prove any fraud that occurs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This step is where the "Rollup" part comes in. Arbitrum Rollup chains handle user transaction data by posting it directly on Ethereum. This setup means that as long as Ethereum is secure, anyone can see what happens on Arbitrum. They can also spot and prove any fraud that occurs.
```

> This step is where the "rollup" part comes in. Arbitrum Rollup chains handle user <a data-quicklook-from="transaction">Transaction</a> data by posting it directly on Ethereum. This setup means that as long as Ethereum is secure, anyone can see what happens on Arbitrum. They can also spot and prove any fraud that occurs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This step is where the "Rollup" part comes in. Arbitrum Rollup chains handle user <a data-quicklook-from="transaction">Transaction</a> data by posting it directly on Ethereum. This setup means that as long as Ethereum is secure, anyone can see what happens on Arbitrum. They can also spot and prove any fraud that occurs.
```

> Validators are the people who help move the Arbitrum chain state forward on the parent chain. They make claims about the chain's state and can dispute claims made by others. Most Arbitrum users are unlikely to want to run a validator, just as most Ethereum users typically don't run their parent chain staking nodes. However, anyone can become a validator. Once the allowlist gets removed, users only need to run the open-source validator software and stake Ether if they need to take action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Validators are the people who help move the Arbitrum chain state forward to the parent chain. They make claims about the chain's state and can dispute claims made by others. Most Arbitrum users are unlikely to want to run a validator, just as most Ethereum users typically don't run their parent chain staking nodes. However, anyone can become a validator. Once the allowlist gets removed, users only need to run the open-source validator software and stake Ether if they need to take action.
```

> Validators are the people who help move the Arbitrum <a data-quicklook-from="chain-state">Chain state</a> forward on the parent chain. They make claims about the chain's state and can dispute claims made by others. Most Arbitrum users are unlikely to want to run a validator, just as most Ethereum users typically don't run their parent chain staking nodes. However, anyone can become a validator. Once the allowlist gets removed, users only need to run the open-source validator software and stake Ether if they need to take action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Validators are the nodes that help move the Arbitrum <a data-quicklook-from="chain-state">Chain state</a> forward on the parent chain. They make claims about the chain's state and can dispute claims made by others. Most Arbitrum users are unlikely to want to run a validator, just as most Ethereum users typically don't run their parent chain staking nodes. However, anyone can become a validator. Once the allowlist gets removed, users only need to run the open-source validator software and stake Ether if they need to take action.
```
